# Summary

This project seeks to classify MRI images of brain tumors taken from Southern Medical University in Guangzhou, China. As stated by the owner of this data, Jun Cheng:

" This brain tumor dataset containing 3064 T1-weighted contrast-inhanced images
from 233 patients with three kinds of brain tumor: meningioma (708 slices), 
glioma (1426 slices), and pituitary tumor (930 slices). Due to the file size
limit of repository, we split the whole dataset into 4 subsets, and achive 
them in 4 .zip files with each .zip file containing 766 slices.The 5-fold
cross-validation indices are also provided"

Dataset: https://figshare.com/articles/brain_tumor_dataset/1512427

## Table of Contents 

Data_Format.ipynb - Extract image and label data from .mat files into pandas dataframe.

Data_Exploration - Exploratory data analysis and balancing classes

Data_Modeling - Creating and Fine-Tuning neural network for tumor classification & identification

## Additional Notes
-----
This data is organized in matlab data format (.mat file). Each file stores a struct
containing the following fields for an image:

cjdata.label: 1 for meningioma, 2 for glioma, 3 for pituitary tumor

cjdata.PID: patient ID

cjdata.image: image data

cjdata.tumorBorder: a vector storing the coordinates of discrete points on tumor border.

	For example, [x1, y1, x2, y2,...] in which x1, y1 are planar coordinates on tumor border.
	It was generated by manually delineating the tumor border. So we can use it to generate
	binary image of tumor mask.
		
cjdata.tumorMask: a binary image with 1s indicating tumor region



